not so he just declassified thousands of pages of his secret documents from
the 1970s that refer to events that occurred in the 1960s by that
time was in the central intelligence agency as an officer of that
North American body philip there for felip who represents this
declassification of cia documents because they are called the jewels of the
good family you know that during the 70s there was a series
break scandals around the city and its operations and a director
James Schlesinger ordered in May 1973 that each section or division of the chair
prepare documents on possible acts that were carried out outside the
letter from the cia that is to say the law of 1947 that established the cia and determined that
can do that the agency cannot do one of the things that are prohibited
They are operations within the US, that is, any function for example
in the part what what
complies with the law, that is, the prosecution of criminal acts and they
They cannot have any police power in the US they carry other documents
reveal that they were involved in antiwar movements in
the us if they raped and clearly their
letters but they did so at the insistence of the president of the
day began with johnson around the year 6867 when johnson was determined to
find the foreign hand in the whole anti-war protest movement
he was convinced that google address funding
from outside the country such as on the street or through some other country such as
for example behind this moment protest movement and he ordered the
I have to investigate looking for this hand
foreigner and was never found because there was none but anyway
that led to the chair violating his letter that is, violating the law with
domestic activities and in 1963 he made or commanded
compile or produce this document with each possible case of activities
illegal or outside the letter of the cia you were when that official
of the intelligence agent in the 1960s and was also closely related to
in a certain way with Latin America than what they discover or what they let see
These documents are related to what you reported in your book within
the company well this documentation starts at 59 and ends at 73 and that
covers all the time that I studied in Latin America not all the 12 years that
they study the cia but anyway a large part and I recognized so many names
in this documentation so many activities and I learned a lot that I did not find what
that I wanted to find and that is possibly in the many tens
years of pages that are totally blank because there are so many
new 15 in a row I am not against what I am looking for
about me because we know of a documentation in quantity of
presentation that we get under the law of limiting the information outside
These include references to illegal and illegal acts that she follows committed
against me in the years when i was in paris
maybe london those were years covered by this
document because it was around the year 71 62 33 when I am making the
first book of mine diary of the cia and I thought that
possibly there would be some reference because they were illegal acts that exists
of the domination of the cia but I thought later that maybe they did not include because
They were not committed within the United States is they can say they were not
illegal and although it says that because they had to protect their information, their
personal and they knew that I am working on the book that I was going to do
revelations don't know exactly what but they followed me through the streets of paris
through the streets in madrid to the streets of berlin everywhere
because I was traveling a lot and I did everything openly, not the
social flight reservations and I remember once they followed me
to the hotel in Madrid and today my friends who came to pick me up at the hotel
half an hour they took his house to spend the night because
and I'm very nervous and I don't know what would happen to the informed viewer
Felipe was an agent of the central intelligence agency there, he resigned from the
cia when she understood the illegal activities in which the
company fundamentally against the peoples of Latin America and later
wrote that daily book of the chair within the company that took him by
also supposed the rejection within the within the cia the persecution and the
own persecution of the state government speaks of general schneider se
He talks about other attempts by the CIA in Latin America that later link him
of all the terrible history that Latin America had with the dictatorships
military in the 1970s at that time you were a CIA officer in
Latin America 'what were the main actions that the CIA committed
for those times in our good continent
an officer like me or the many more that there were no
did more than run and then finance and lead Chileans
in Chile and Brazilians in Brazil they were the agents, we were the
official and they are the locals, the Brazilians are the
Chileans who actually carry out the actions in the case of
from Chile it is perfectly well known that the cia
organized the service called dina avilés this was a new service
established by the series after Allende's murder and it was that service
that he murdered sneijder if I do not remember new hands nobody if it is not in
Argentine silver and these services were like
instruments of the city because I worked with services while
Ecuador as in Uruguay and knew what they did in other countries and this famous
'operation condor' emanates from those relationships that the chair had with all
the security services in all that region, that is, I do not know of any
country in Latin America of the Caribbean where Garcia did not have
to connections and operations with local services because also that
They send Luis Posada Carriles to the people from the chair to the dissip in Venezuela.
exactly the 60s and the chair had very close relationships with the
discipline in those years were the years of Carlos Andrés Pérez
I knew even though I was not in a school it was known because every time one knew
for the white boy I wanted to know something about an Argentine who is in Quito, so I
send a cable to the cia station at the embassy in buenos aires and
You have to say that they can use and they are or not what that if they can do
a site with the local service or if they have to restrict the research to
the archives of the same station is to say always a distinction of what
it has to be done with let's say assets
um and natural local services in all those years
that I was there I guess they were 89 you can never a case when I did
could not do an investigation or inquiry with a local service
they were not always of enormous importance to the company but their
local services almost nothing can be done because police would have to be used
or military to carry out the acts that were believed
carry out and since those years in Latin America that was what helped
transform the vision of felipe iv on the work of the chair well that
came later really because I got out of the chair without tiring to take any
action write things like that and today you will forget all that
little by little the idea came to me to make regulations and I also had
unfaithful influenced by studies I did in the
unam in Mexico because when I left the CIA I was in Mexico and I wanted to go to
going back to studying a doctoral program in Latin American accents and reading
all those horrors of the conquest of the colony knowing that what we do
us is just a continuation of all nearly 500 years of repression
genocide policy and things then the idea before unthinkable but I started
to think of a research book in Mexico to stop
look for information to see if the documentation centers and not
because he can't remind you of all those 8-year-old details I had to look for
sources and what is some book of mine was that
a person in paris told me about the british museum of newspaper archives and i went
there and they had all the local newspapers of all the countries of the
times when I was there so I can read the newspapers daily
even weekends in all the cities of countries where I was from
moment that I was and everything we do the importance came out in the newspapers of
so I spent a year reading a microfilm
and taking notes and dictating at night at home because I have my reader in a box
he had given me secretarial support so at the end of all that year he had like
five thousand sheets and had to organize them by it was very difficult because some
prayers were active now not now but then start over and
so i would select the form of a diary but
stating at the beginning that it is not a diary written on the fly but
after after sight an impact a tremendous impact on this
moment is as long as the chair knew that I am writing a book and they took
several measures that I still do not know exactly I do not know its scope good
Maybe in 30 years, Felipe will find out through some document
declassified what happened to you around that time how we are
now finding out terribly what happened against peoples like Cuba like the
people of Chile and other Latin American peoples through these
declassified documents of that would have to continue talking a lot but time
is relentless and that is that I do not think that one can
do it today so a former officer who they knew was
taking the path that I took but I was the first and they didn't really know what
do well then today I think they would take action
very fast if it were today i would eliminate it good with anything possible
happy there this story of the cia revealed now confirmed with the jewels
of the family and that in a few years we will know of many others that occurred
at that stage it differs greatly from the central agency that from now on
from outside the company that he now sees as a good specialist there are two
countries that have me quite worried, one is Venezuela and the other is
Bolivia and perhaps very soon Ecuador on the spot of the elections
electoral processes in the mind in America has been very unfavorable
by the us and they also have to take action they need these regions and
control over this region and I am following as closely as possible for me
what is happening in venezuela regarding the bolivarian government the same
in Bolivia and I am looking for signs of activity and there are quite a few
that the chairs are still the secret arm or the furtive arm of the
U.S. government for and to carry out the government's secret policy because
this secret policy violates all conventions all
treated all international standards of conduct because
includes such things as murders could the cia might be unaware of a fact
as notorious as we have been in 2000 2002 against the president fight
I think so of course I don't have that, you have organized very well and I know
controlled all that but for a new government a new power that they have
old services well entered by the follow in the past and arrive a present
Chávez to power he has to worry about the penetration of his own
services once the same is present in bolivia right now the same
business I have the old woman and I know we had the security forces
totally flooded and we manipulate constantly cost those services in a way
that although the electoral process is very positive, it must be taken into account
also the necessary measures to erase all that from the past
you can't undo a service overnight so it's very difficult
know who are the agents that provide these services
President Chávez has reiterated the complaint about the dangers of an attack
against his life exemplary that continue to be developed if they come to provoke
demonstrations and social violence venezuela yes very well said and they
They have to be as worried about all this as Cubans in the years
60 so far things are going well but I
I care a lot about his life, Chávez and Evo Morales and perhaps
run too because she's normal they can't cross their glasses and do anything
they have to try to subvert this process is very serious philip that that
representatives of the southern command have traveled to Latin America more times
and the representatives of the intelligence agencies and in the
representatives of North American diplomacy I suppose it would be a
surprise that command are also quite dangerous
but the most dangerous day after day that is
daily are the solutions of the chairs in each embassy and in various
consulates too and they can increase their forces invest in Chile or
in Peru in Bolivia at any time by sending more people to the embassies and
expanding its operations is an agency and quite flexible and they
they have staff they have people who speak Spanish they have people who can
communicate that is to say communicate with an accent or with the leadership so the
chair has to be the main arm for the subversion of
progressive movements in the region in all Latin American countries
working the company continues working and plans are also being developed
against the peoples and progressive movements of Latin America and the
world that is a lesson that these documents also leave us
declassified we are not talking about past history we are talking about a
present in which there are many of those elements that you see in those dirty
jewels of the cia and there are many others that were not revealed by the documents
because they also involve people who are in government today or would involve
also at that stage in which the central intelligence agency was directed
nothing more and nothing less than the father of the current president of the United States are
many things that remain to be revealed we will have to wait perhaps 30 more years 25
more years to know many of the things that Empty did against our peoples
especially in those saddest moments for Latin America during the
military dictatorships of the years